Software vulnerabilities are an impediment to the reliable operation of a large number of computer applications, both proprietary and open source. Fortunately, there are many static analysis available to identify possible security issues. This paper presents a replication of a study conducted by 2nd Lt Ryan K. McLean where the author focused exclusively on comparing tools used to analyze network connection-based applications. The author reports the results of evaluating three subsets of open source code using security focused static analysis tools. The study found that these static analysis tools give developers a way to extensively test code for known flaws including buffer overruns, format string bugs, weak random number generation, and system access via shell. Tools such as RATS (Rough Auditing Tool for Security) and Flawfinder find these insecure design patterns. Flawfinder reports 2.25 times the vulnerabilities discovered by RATS, and Flawfinder's ability to provide valuable information to the user is better than that of RATS. In order to confirm and expand upon these findings, we replicate the study on three open source C software packages, PuTTY, Nmap and Wireshark. Our results are not fully in agreement with the original study by McLean when using a similar experimental setup. Static analysis tools used to discover security vulnerabilities suffer from false negatives and false positives. A false positive is a reported vulnerability in a program that is not really a security issue. A false negative is a vulnerability in code which is not detected by the tool. However, when we evaluate the metrics using the original setup we found the metrics offer no consideration on false negatives and false positives.
